# Lab 2

For this lab, we're gonna have 2 containers share the same data. 

Although it would be ideal to have each container standalone so that they can be scaled independently, there are cases where two containers work together, 

## Description

Your students are very happy with the basics that they have learned so far.  However you know that they don't just use one API they have many.

You decide that it would be a good idea to demonstrate how they could deploy multiple apis using containers.  So before the session starts.  You draft two of the world's simplest node APIs to use as part of your demo. 💁‍♂ These apis have been prepared for you and are in your resources folder in Cloud9.

You are going to show them how to share data across apis (containers) by demoing temporary docker volumes (and an anonymous volume).  Furthermore you plan to show them how they can seed existing data using a named volume.

Then you will wrap up today's session by showing them how they can use Elastic Beanstalk's multi container option for deploying multiple apis locally.  💁‍♂ You will deal with cloud deployment in the next session.

## Game plan

1. Create an API for the service-area and price micro services with a temporary shared volume and run them locally
2.Show them how they can use the anonymous volume pattern to share pre-existing data
3.Show them a better practice version of volume-from using a seeded  named volume and refactor to share pre-existing data using docker compose.
4.Deploy locally using Elastic Beanstalk multi container option.