# Week 2 Readings and Resources
 Bookmark this page
This week we continued with the foundation-building by looking at some of the other areas of container management that are necessary to grasp. Monitoring, networking, storage, and application architecture are just as important to consider with containers as they are when looking at physical and virtual servers. 

 

 

## Container Networking

 

Inside an Amazon Elastic Container Service task definition, you can specify the Docker networking mode that the containers in the task will use. This networking mode parameter accepts one of the four following values: 

none: for no external connectivity 
bridge: to use Docker’s built-in network
host: maps ports directly to the EC2 instance’s network interface
awsvpc: each task is allocated its own ENI. 
 

To find out more about the awsvpc networking mode, check out the ECS developer guide:

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-networking.html

 

 

## CloudWatch Container Insights

 

Amazon CloudWatch Container Insights allows you to collect, aggregate, and summarize metrics and logs from your containerized applications and microservices, without requiring the implementation of custom metrics

 

Container Insights is available for Amazon Elastic Container Service, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, and Kubernetes platforms on Amazon EC2. The metrics include utilization for resources such as CPU, memory, disk, and network. Container Insights also provides diagnostic information, such as container restart failures, to help you isolate issues and resolve them quickly. You can also set CloudWatch alarms on metrics that Container Insights collects.

 

To get started with Container Insights, check out this blog post:

https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/mt/introducing-container-insights-for-amazon-ecs/

 

 

## Persistent Storage with Containers

 

There are many reasons why you would need to use persistent storage for your containers, but it’s important to remember that the mechanisms for persistent storage require additional understanding and configuration. 

 

Look into how this is done with Docker directly, but also how this is represented in Amazon Elastic Container Service. 

 

Storage volumes in Docker: 

https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/

 

Volumes in Amazon ECS: 

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/using_data_volumes.html

 

 

## Microservices

 

There are many advantages to microservices, and countless reasons as to why you would rearchitect in order to best utilize them. When looking at using this style of application architecture, make sure you have a strong grasp of what you’re hoping to get from microservices, the best way to decompose your application into its necessary parts, and the methods you want to employ in order to build your microservice workflow. 

 

AWS has some great resources on microservices and how to implement them through a variety of services, including containers: 

https://aws.amazon.com/microservices/

 

 

## AWS Fargate

 

AWS Fargate allows you to run containers without worrying about provisioning or managing the underlying infrastructure, like Amazon EC2 instances. It is a fully managed service, and is therefore inherently highly available and highly scalable.  

 

When using AWS Fargate, you use container orchestration tools to define what containers you want to run, like Amazon Elastic Container Service or Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service. Once your containers are defined, you can launch them onto an AWS Fargate cluster. There is no need to bring up the cluster on your own, AWS Fargate will handle the provisioning and management of the resources needed to run those containers.  

 

AWS Fargate is the serverless compute launch type you can use with Amazon Elastic Container Service or Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service. This last week highlighted how to use it with Amazon ECS. To learn more about how to get started with Amazon ECS and AWS Fargate read here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ECS_GetStarted_Fargate.html

 

To run containers on top of AWS Fargate you will interact with the AWS Command Line Interface. To learn more read here:  https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ECS_CLI.html