# Kubernetes Hands On

The idea of container orchestration is to manage container lifecycle in an abstracted and automated way. We want to be able to deploy new container instances, maybe one at a time or potentially as a group of containers, or stop and retire old running container versions, and manage the scale of our containers, hosts and a lot more.

Kubernetes allows us to deploy and manage containers across a fleet of hosts(cluster).

## Kubernetes Cluster

In Kb, a cluster is composed of hosts that we call nodes or workers. In AWS, Each node is an EC2 instance, and we'll use Kb to place that EC2 instance onto the EC2 based cluster.

Kb abstracts away a lot of underlying details when it comes to container management. We'll work with an abstraction called Kubernetes objects, and the Kb API to represent and manage our cluster.

## Kubernetes Objects

1. Pods
2. Services
3. Volumes
4. Namespaces

Objects are used to define the desired state of our cluster. The Kubernetes control plane is provided by the _master_. The master is a collection or processes running in a host, and then invoked to manage our cluster and keep the desired state.

Always remember to have the master in at least 3 nodes for redundancy!

### Pod

Container of group of containers you want to run. A wrapper around our container that Kb communicates with for management.
Usually though, pods are used for just one container instance, otherwise to scale a container we would need to scale the whole pod.

Each pod has an IP address and Ports can be configured.


### Service

Pod or collection of pods that we want to expose as a microservice. Kb has built in discovery service using DNS, or other discovery tools can be used.

### Volumes

Kb object that represent directories that mount to pods so containers have access to read and modify files in a persistent manner. SImilar to docker volumes

### Namespaces

Allow to have multiple virtual Kubernetes clusters backed by the same physical cluster

