# Amazon EKS (Elastic Kubernetes Service)

Runs Kubernetes as a Service. Enables communication with other AWS services.

The pod is the basic building block within Kubernetes, and containers are alaways part of a pod, and are not shared between pods.

With EKS, pods are defined with a pod spec(yaml manifest)

## Pod Spec

Includes pod's name, containers and volumes.

For redundancy and resilience, most customers want replicas of pods.

## ReplicaSet

A ReplicaSet ensures a specific number of pod replicas are running at any given time

While possible to create and manage manually, its much more common for them to be managed by a deployment.

ReplicaSets describe desired state via YAML to create a deployment, and the deployment change the desired state to the desired state at a controlled rate.

But how to know which nodes to place pods?

## Scheduler

Looks at the resources required by our pods and uses that information to influence scheduling decision. The EKS scheduler runs a series of filters to exclude ineligible nodes for pod placement.

### Volume Filter

Scheduler looks at the pod's volume requirements ad determines which nodes are compatible. E.g. Amazon EBS volume in one AZ cannot be attached to a node in a different AZ


### Scheduling Constraints

The scheduler also defines constraintes to that have been set to fine tune pod placement. Can be set at node level as wella s pod level.
At end, scheduler calculates score for each node that has not been filtered out and the pod is placed at the highest scoring node.

Scheduler is running at a managed control pane. SO allw e have to do is spin EKS, define pod and deployments and get going