# Building Containers

First step is to create a dockerfile. A docker file is a set of instructions that tells how to build a container, step-by-step.

When its time to build a container, each instruction is executed in order to form an executable container image.

## Semantics

### FROM 

First non common instruction in any Dockerfile. It sets the base image from which we're going to build on top of. Docker images can be layerd on top of one another. Example:

```yaml
FROM ubuntu:16.04
```

This allows us to have a container that has a minimal version of the operating system Ubuntu installed, regardless of what OS of the host machine is.

The 16.04 specifies the version of the image.

### LABEL

Allows to add metadata to an image.

```yaml
LABEL maintainer="mathewscsmotta@gmail.com"
```

### RUN

Run execute whatever commands defined in a shell. For example, if we're running a Python application, you could make a run command like so:

```yaml
RUN apt-get update -y && \
    apt-get install -y python-pip python-dev
```

We need to install Python as that is the language the app is written, and pip is needed to download dependencies from the Pyhton app.

### COPY

Allows to copy files from machine to the image. Example:

```yaml
COPY .requirements.txt /app/requirements.txt
```

### WORKDIR

Sets the work directory for any subsequent instructions that will be run.

```yaml
WORKDIR /app
```

### EXPOSE

Exposes a port for the container to commincate on. Needed to communicate with external entities, this is needed.

```yaml
EXPOSE 8080
```

### ENTRYPOINT

Defines what script or command needs to be run when the container starts up

```yaml
ENTRYPOINT ["python"]
```

### CMD

Command instruction is similar to entrypoint. Executes commands or scripts in runtime. Allows to provide default values.

```yaml
CMD ["app.py"]
```


# Union File System

Each dockerfile instruction creates a layer. This way, if different dockerfiles use the same instructions, for example `FROM ubuntu`, after building it for the first time, the next dockerfile will not re-download ubuntu, and instead will reuse the layer already created.

This is possible by the union file system, which then minimizes duplication.

# Docker Volumes

Image data is readonly. To be able to persist data or share data across containers, we can use Docker Volumes.