# Container Networking

Often we may need trafic from the internet to hit our indivitual containers sitting on EC2 instances, or have a container communicate with other containers.

## Getting trafic to our tasks

First, we need a load balancer. In AWS, there's the Elastic Load Balancer family, which is made of three different types of load balancers:

1. Network load balancer
2. Classic load balancer
3. Application load balancer


### Application load balancer (ALB)

Allows to use dynamic host port mapping, allows multiple tasks from same service to be placed on a single container instance.

Highly integrated into AWS container services like ECS

ECS even configures the load balancer on our behalf, as well as place tasks on instances in our cluster.

It can perform path-based routing, so basically it can route request based off of the URL


#### Accessing outside services

This is solved through task definition. In task definiton we can specify the docker networking mode that ECS will use for the containers in our task.

4 different options of Network Mode:

1. None -> Doesn't allow containers to talk with anything or anyone, and also doesn't allow to specify any port mappings.

2. Bridge -> Default mode, uses docker built in network. Each and every tasks has its own private IP and uses the Docker bridge for any communication

3. Host -> Removes need for docker built-in internal network, because the container ports are mapped directly into the EC2 instance's network interface. Can't take advantage of dynamic host port mapping as it doesn't allow multiple tasks from the same service to be placed in a single container instance.

4. AWS VPC -> Offers highest network performance for containers, because every task is given the same networking properties as regular EC2 instances. Every task has its own networking interface, private IP and and internal DNS hostname. One downside is that it also doesn't allow dynamic host port mapping. However provides more control how we want containers to integrate other services.
