# Resources

## Docker Basics

 

To fully understand the Docker engine. Docker uses a client-server architecture. The main components that make up this architecture is the Docker daemon, the Docker client, and Docker registries. 

 

You will use Docker to create and manage images, containers, networks, volumes, and more. 

 

Brief overview of some of the core components that make up Docker:

https://docs.docker.com/engine/docker-overview/

 
## Dockerfiles

In order to have an executable container image, you need to create a text file known as a Dockerfile. Dockerfiles contain instructions on how to build a Docker image step by step. There are many different keywords that you will use to write instructions. When the Dockerfile is built, each instruction is executed in order and the end result is an executable Docker image.

 
For the full list of keywords and more information on Dockerfiles:

https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/

## Docker Images

Docker uses Union File Systems and the copy on write strategy for managing files and layers. 


The use of the copy on write strategy helps keep the top writable layer small, copying files into the top writable layer only when needed. To read more about copy on write and union files systems click here: https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/

## Docker CLI and Logging

The Docker CLI is a tool that developers can use to interact with the Docker engine. It allows you to build containers, run containers, view container logs, and stop your containers, all through a terminal.