Accessing the AWS Management Console
At the top of these instructions, click Start Lab to launch your lab.
A Start Lab panel opens displaying the lab status.

Wait until you see the message "Lab status: ready", then click the X to close the Start Lab panel.
Choose Details and Show and then Download PEM
Close the credentials window.
At the top of these instructions, click AWS
This will open the AWS Management Console in a new browser tab. The system will automatically log you in.

TIP: If a new browser tab does not open, there will typically be a banner or icon at the top of your browser indicating that your browser is preventing the site from opening pop-up windows. Click on the banner or icon and choose "Allow pop ups."
Arrange the AWS Management Console tab so that it displays along side these instructions. Ideally, you will be able to see both browser tabs at the same time, to make it easier to follow the lab steps.

Before you can start this exercise. You need to import some files and install some modules in the AWS Cloud9 environment that has been prepared for you.

Ensure you are in Cloud9. Choose Services and search for Cloud9. You should see an existing IDE called ContainersLab. Click the button Open IDE. Once the IDE has loaded, enter the following command into the terminal: (This command will ensure that you are in the correct path)

cd /home/ec2-user/environment
You will need get the files that will be used for this exercise. Go to the Cloud9 bash terminal (at the bottom of the page) and run the following wget command:

wget https://aws-tc-largeobjects.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/DEV-AWS-MO-Containers/lab-1-docker-cli.zip
You should also see that a root folder called ContainersLab with a lab-1-docker-cli.zip file has been downloaded and added to your AWS Cloud9 filesystem (on the top left).

To unzip the file. Run the following command:

unzip lab-1-docker-cli.zip
To keep things clean. Run the following commands to remove the zip file. You can also close the other AWS console tab.

rm lab-1-docker-cli.zip