# Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS)

ECS is broken up into two pieces: control plane and data plane.

## Control Plane

Control planes are generally responsible for provisioning software, any user/service requested configuration and managing the lifecycle of resources.

Also helps data plane do its work.


## Data Plane

Provides capacity so that it can run whatever work the control plane tells it it needs to.


## Requirements

On the lowest level, we need to run a cluster of EC2 instances and containers will be placed across this cluster.

The Cluster(EC2 instance) is often what is refered to as data plane. It provides container's power so that it will actually run.

At the top level is an API, which is how we interact with our cluster. 

Using the API, customers can launch clusters with thousands of instances and schedule tens of thousands of containers in seconds

API exposes the container's controle plane. We can think of it as the ECS service itself as it orchestrates the containers on our behalf and provides an entrypoint for communication through the API.

## Summary

ECS, the service, and control plane communicates with the EC2 instances in our cluster to start, stop and monitor containers as we send requests through the API.

The ECS control plane is again mainly abstracted away from the customer through the use of the api, but the customer still has responsibility over the data plane, as they are still accountable for the EC2 instances.

The abstraction of the control plane is the true beauty of ECS. WIth that, it takes care of installing, provisioning, operating and scaling our cluster of instances and containers on our behalf.