# Scheduling & Task Placement

Couple of options to launch a new container: do it manually; launch a container and place on an instance ourselves. The disadvantage happens when we have a great number of containers and instances.

Other option is to not have mere mortals take care of this huge problem!

In ECS, scheduling tasks and placing tasks are handled by two engines: Scheduling Engine and Placement Engine

## Scheduling Engine

Provide logic around how, when and where to start/stop containers. We specify which task definition to start, and the engine will make calls to the control plane to start a task on the specific instance of instances.

Different types of applications and requirements needs ECS to provide different types of schedulers.

### Amazon ECS Service Scheduler

Allows to specify, how we want our tasks to run, how many copies to run. It maintain this number and reschedule tasks if they fail. 

### Amazon EventBridge

Cron-like strategy. Runs at a particular time of day or day of the week.

### Custom Schedulers

Schedulers can be created, use a third party scheduler or run tasks manually

## Placement Engine

Determine most optimal place for tasks to start, aka, has appropriate memory and CPU space.

Placement can be customized using task placement strategies and constraints

### Task placement constraints

Allows to filter out which instances to put containers on. Filter based of AMI ID, instance type, tags and more. E.g. 2 tasks tat should run together or that should never run together, a task placement constraint called Affinity can be called to do that


### Task placement strageties

Determine how to place instances. E.g. binpack which packs containers as densely as possible across instances in the cluster to reduce costs. Other eg., Spread strategy spreads the tasks across instances for high availability.